- [Instructor] In this lesson, we'll build
The API will respond to the request by returning
Our API definition is going to be very minimal
We can discover what fields or objects
by visiting the OpenAPI specification.
Here we are at the OAS 3.0 specification
and if we navigate to the schema section
it will list the different sections
The OpenAPI field, the info field and the paths field.
and that provides clues to Swagger Editor
and we see the info field.
the API itself, such as the title of the API.
and we'll say it's version one.
To do that, we first specify a path object.
In this case, we're going to be exposing
the product endpoint.
Within that product endpoint, we're going
to expose the get operation, which corresponds
to the HTTP method that will be used
to invoke this operation.
You'll notice that we're using YAML.
So, it's important to indent two spaces
when we have different fields on an object.
We'll navigate to the next line,
indent two spaces and now were able
to specify the responses.
This is indicating what data the API is going
to return from this endpoint or operation.
The first thing we provide within
the responses object is the HTTP status code.
From there, we can provide a description of this operation.
We'll say, this is a list of the products in the catalog.
(computer keys clicking)
And then from here, we can go on to describe
the response body that will be returned.
So, we use the content field in order to do that.
Within the content field, we specify the media type.
In this case, we're going to be returning JSON.
Then there's a schema field nested within that.
The schema field allows us to describe, kind of,
the data format or data type that we'll be returning.
So, we're able to indicate what the objects look like
that we'll be returning, specifying constraints
and other things that describe
the data coming back in the response body.
To start out, we're going to say that
the type of data we're returning is an array.
Then we're able to specify what the items
in that array look like by describing
the properties on that item.
In this case, we're going to have an ID for our product
and then nested within the ID object
we're able to specify the data type of this property.
Then we can go ahead and provide an example
of what this data might look like.
Now, we're also going to have a name for our product object
and that's going to be of type string.
Then we can provide a simple example.
We'll just say it's going to be Lemon Water
and that's it.
We have a valid, OpenAPI specification 3.0 API definition.
You'll notice on the right hand side
our interactive documentation allows us to see
the details of this operation on the API.
This could be used by any API consumer
to learn how to invoke this operation.